# Machine Learning Techniques in Suicide Rate Prediction
## Introduction
Suicides have become increasingly concerning and have received a lot of attention in today's society. Suicides are regarded to be most frequently caused by depression. Other factors to consider include economic factors, societal factors and incurable diseases. Chatbots based on AI have been developed to prevent people from committing suicide, although their accuracy is only about 75%. To reduce the number of suicide attempts in the future, we must employ machine learning algorithms to accurately anticipate suicide attempts. Preliminary data analysis would reveal suicide numbers as well as the relationship between various factors and the amount to which they contribute. To better comprehend the trends in suicide attempts, a graphical representation would be presented. Several Python libraries will be used, and multiple models will be constructed to see which model has the least error. This research investigates how suicide rates and the factors that influence them can be predicted using machine learning algorithms. 
## Importance of our current study
The World Health Organization estimates that 800,000 people die by suicide each year, making it the 18th biggest cause of death. Suicide was the tenth largest cause of death in the United States in 2018, resulting to a decrease in average life expectancy in the United States. Suicide is a global phenomenon that affects people of all ages. According to some estimates, for every adult who died by suicide, more than 20 others attempted suicide. Suicide is a worldwide problem; in 2016, 79 percent of suicides took place in low- and middle-income nations.
People today suffer from serious physical and psychological diseases because of a range of internal and external circumstances. Although depression is more common in people in their 30s and 40s, it can also be found in children and the elderly due to academic stress and interpersonal relationships. Because people with mental illnesses are stigmatized in society, they frequently conceal their sickness. Self-harm and suicide attempts are also influenced by economic conditions and drug and alcohol usage.
The first step in suicide prevention can be thought of as a categorization task aimed at precisely identifying persons who are at risk of suicide within a given time frame, allowing for preventive action. However, the greatest meta-analysis of suicide prediction looked at 365 researches and found that predictions based on individual risk or protective factors had poor predictive accuracy and have improved little over time.
